1.usage of triggers?

Triggers are used to maintain the referential integrity of data by changing the data in a systematic fashion.
2.wrapper classes in java and their usages real time?

Wrapper Class will convert primitive data types into objects.The objects are necessary if we want to modify the arguments passed into the method.

3.Difference b/w string buffer and string bulider.

StringBuffer:StringBuffer is synchronized that is  thread safe. It means two threads can't call the methods of StringBuffer simultaneously.
StringBuilder:StringBuilder is non-synchronized that is not thread safe. It means two threads can call the methods of StringBuilder simultaneously.

4.Diff b/w List and Set Collection framwork

List: List is an ordered sequence and it allows duplicate elements and  Elements can be accessed their position 
Set: Set is an unordered sequence and it doesn’t allow duplicate elements.Position access to elements is not allowed.

5. Diff b/w Checked and Unchecked Exceptions with examples

Checked Exception: This  exceptions can  checked at compile time. If some code within a method throws a checked exception, then the method must either handle the exception or it must specify the exception using throws keyword
Unchecked Exception: Unchecked exceptions occur at runtime and compiler does not check these types of exceptions.

6.Diff b/w statement and prepared statements and color statement in terms of security.

Statement is used to execute string-based SQL queries.
PreparedStatement is used to execute parameterized SQL queries.

CallableStatement in java is used to call stored procedure from java program. 
Stored Procedures are group of statements that we compile in the database for some task.

7.Diff b/w JQuery and JavaScript(purpose).

JavaScript uses JIT[Just in Time Compiler] which is combination of interpreter and Compile and is written in C.

JQuery Uses the resources that are provided by JavaScript to make things easier. It is a light-weight JavaScript library.

8.Diff b/w Let and Var in Js.

Let  can enhance our code readability and decreases the chance of programming error

Var  is used to declare a variable in JavaScript. A variable declared with the var keyword is defined throughout the program.

9.Diff b/w ID selector and Class Selector examples.

id” is unique in a page and can only apply to at most one element,ID selector is a name preceded by a hash character (“#”). 
class” selector can apply to multiple elements.a class selector is a name preceded by a full stop (“.”).

10.Diff b/w procedure and functions.
set of instructions which takes some input and performs certain tasks. In SQL, a function returns a value.
Procedureis a set of instructions which takes input and performs certain task. In SQL, procedure does not return a value.

11.Usages of generics in java
Generics are used to store Specific type of Objects for type-safety purpose and perform Data Type Safe operations and memory management.

12.Java-7 & 8 Features methods and classes?
auto-boxing, generics, var-args, java annotations, enum, premain method , lambda expressions, functional interface, method references etc.

13.Need of Statemanagement.

State management refers to the management of the state of one or more user interface controls such as text fields, OK buttons, radio buttons, etc. in a graphical user interface. In this user interface programming technique, the state of one UI control depends on the state of other UI controls.

14.JSP and JSTL Tags.

JSP and JSTL tags
The JavaServer Pages is a collection of useful JSP tags which encapsulates the core functionality common to many JSP applications.
JSTL has structural tasks such as iteration and conditionals, tags for manipulating XML documents, internationalization tags, and SQL tags.

15.MVc Represantational.

Model–view–controller is a software design pattern commonly used for developing user interfaces that divide the related program 
logic into (three) interconnected elements.

16.Module Quolible in mvc

The @Qualifier annotation is used to resolve the autowiring conflict, when there are multiple beans of same type.

17.cost of shard in time of configuration

Hibernate Shards is a framework that is designed to encapsulate and minimize this complexity by adding support for horizontal 
partitioning on top of Hibernate Core. Simply put, we aim to provide a unified view of multiple databases via Hibernate.

18.HTML5 & 6 features

HTML 5 give us many existing features like vedio support and mobile optimized websites.It provide so many tags like <script>, <link> so on...
HTML 6 gives some wounding express tags. In this we can directly put <container> or <wrraper> rather then using multiple id's.

19.some of the selecotrs in css#

CSS Element Selector.
CSS Id Selector.
CSS Class Selector.
CSS Universal Selector.
CSS Group Selector.

JSP Controller acts as an interface between View and Model.

20 why spring is so popular(advnatages)?

Spring is one of the most popular open source framework for developing enterprise applications. It provides comprehensive infrastructure 
support for developing Java based applications. Spring also enables the developer to create high performing, reusable, easily testable and
 loose coupling enterprise Java application.

21. what is IOC container.

IoC container is responsible to instantiate, configure and assemble the objects. The IoC container gets informations from the XML
 file and works accordingly.

22.spring standalone application , Scopes and spring Beans what is defualt scope of the spring bean

Spring ApplicationContext is a central interface to provide configuration for an application. 
ClassPathXmlApplicationContext is an implementation of the ApplicationContext that loads configuration definition from an XML file, 
which is located on the classpath.

Spring MVC controllers are singleton by default and any controller object variable/field will be shared across all the requests and sessions. 
If the object variable should not be shared across requests, one can use @Scope("request") annotation above your controller class definition 
to create instance per request.



